---
title: "Bad reviews that are irrationally irritating"
date: 2025-04-12
tags:
  - web
excerpt: |-
  A little bit of knowledge can be dangerous.
---

When I look at reviews for a particular product, I usually make an effort to
look specifically at negative reviews and recent reviews.

In the case of negative reviews, however, sometimes you come across a very
emphatic negative review with a high number of votes, but the review is
factually incorrect in some way.

A recent example I came across was when looking at power banks on Amazon. A
person left a one-star review on a 10,000 mAh model claiming they only measured
2000 mAh capacity with their USB power meter, and that was 80% less than
advertised. Their fatal error? They forget to take into account voltage – it was
charging their other device (another power bank) at 15 volts (for at least for
part of the charge), while the 10,000 mAh battery capacity is measured at 3.6
volts in this case. (Power is equal to voltage times current, so 2000 mAh at 15
volts is the same number of watt-hours as 8333 mAh at 3.6 volts. Measuring and
comparing watt-hours is likely to be a better idea of course, especially if you
don’t have a way to discharge the power bank at a fixed voltage…)

Such a claim is also lacking a bit of common sense – if the output capacity were
only 20% of the advertised battery capacity, the power bank wouldn’t charge a
decent smartphone even halfway, and there would be a flood of other negative
reviews.

Another recent example was a bad review for a particular brand of sun cream,
with the reviewer claiming that they looked up the batch code on some random
website and it said the product was manufactured five years ago. The error in
this case is that they didn’t enter the batch code on the random website, but
instead a product number found the front of the bottle (a number that is the
same on every bottle). The reviewer even highlighted the non-batch code in a
photo. (The actual batch code is on the bottom of the bottle.)

On the one hand, it’s not my job to defend companies’ products – they can do
that themselves. On the other hand, bad reviews which are essentially
misinformation are irritating as you feel powerless to correct them. Once upon a
time, you could leave comments on reviews on Amazon (starting a discussion
thread). That feature no longer exists, however, and you can now only mark a
review as helpful or report it as violating community guidelines (without being
able to enter any real detail). (The only real way to correct another review is
to write a review of your own, but you may not want to or be in a position to
write a proper review.)

And while it’s not my job to defend companies’ products, I don’t really want
good products to fail either. (Especially ones that I own or buy regularly.)
